We collectively including the fund did
not appreciate
the backlash against globalization that
came from the fact that yes the world
economy is doing better as a whole but
many communities
were hauled out because their jobs
disappeared and there was not enough
attention to them. I'll tell you what I
am very keen not to see repeated is the
same with artificial intelligence.
>> I'm Francqua and this is Leaders, the
podcast that explores what drives the
world's most influential people. Be sure
to follow and subscribe so you never
miss an [music] episode. This week I'm
speaking to Cristina Guruga, the
managing director of the [music]
International Monetary Fund, one of the
world's most influential global
institutions. The IMF is like a
financial adviser and emergency lender
for countries. With a lending capacity
of just under $1 trillion, the fund
helps governments manage economic
problems, prevent crisis, and recover
when things go wrong. Since taking
[music] the helm in 2019, Gorga has
navigated one global crisis after
another. From the CO9 pandemic to
Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine
and the latest conflict in the Middle
East. Gorga is a person responsible for
bringing together the IMF's member
countries. So I wanted to understand
what leadership looks like when success
depends on consensus, how [music] she
approaches difficult decisions, and how
the fund is thinking about some of the
world's most complex geopolitical
challenges, including Russia.
MD, thank you so much for joining us on
Leaders. Now institutions like the AMF
live in this crossroad of you know
politics, consensus and and competing
interests. So how do you see it? Is it
you know is it a politician's job that
you have or a leadership job?
>> It is service to the membership. Uh my
job is to keep 191 countries together
and get them focused on what is
happening in the world economy. why it
matters to them and what they can do. Uh
and I can tell you it is not an easy
job. The world today is more
complicated. There are tremendous
transformations taking place. The desire
to come together especially when
uncertainty is so high is incredible.
>> I mean it's just a lot of people right?
If you have 190 people is it all about
compromise? How do you get people to
talk to each other and actually agree on
things?
>> The best ammunition we have is objective
analysis. So they can see where the
world is headed. When we do our job
well,
that is when it is clearly a global
public good. We have a huge
responsibility to say it as we see it.
to rich countries to poor countries to
big to small. It is not a service of
some and not others. Uh then we have the
credibility and we have the trust of the
membership. You know one thing people
don't understand is what does the fund
actually do. What we do is we care about
the health of the world economy like a
family doctor. So we go to countries, we
take their vital signs and then we say
okay maybe you have to do a little bit
more of this and a little bit less of
that. We also have an emergency service.
Countries get into trouble.
We can come to their rescue and we have
done that for half of our membership
almost over the years of our existence.
But and so when I go to the doctor, I
usually follow you know the advice. Not
everybody does that. So you can go to a
country and say like look I'm worried
about infl I'm worried about this and
they can say thank you so much. Bye-bye.
>> What we find is that countries that take
seriously advice like people who are
following their doctor's prescriptions
do very well. Uh look at Europe. At one
point we had countries in deep crisis.
Portugal, Ireland, Greece, Iceland,
they followed
what needs to be done. They took on very
difficult reforms. Where are they today?
The best performing economies in Europe.
So listen to your doctor.
>> But on the doctor analogy, what you're
prescribing is is not it's not a syrup,
right? It's it's it's really hard. It's
austerity, job losses.
>> Yes. The first thing is they need to
trust that it is in their interest. But
to trust there has to be an engagement
and an explanation bringing them on on
board. They have to feel that they can
provide input in this decision and then
the decision may become different as a
result. And then to do everything in
your power to reduce the negative
impact, to recognize that zeroing in on
the most vulnerable in society not only
saves lives,
>> but it improves the likelihood that
people would move forward with less uh
less resistance, resentment and cost.
>> What's your favorite quality in a
leader? It is the buck stops with me.
That ability to confidently say I take
responsibility to lead. Ultimately I
will make a decision. It may not be
popular but if it is the right decision
I would lead with it. And I see that in
many countries happening and I see in
countries where there is hesitance.
what would the public say and I believe
that u uh strong leaders don't think
about uh what next in elections they
think what is best for people and
actually one feature of a good leader
and I embrace it wholeheartedly is never
ask people to do something you're not
prepared to do yourself I have this
memory
when Fukushima happened and in the first
days it was very dangerous. I sent a
team of emergency responders from
Europe. I had to go to the European
Parliament. I told them as I was sending
off at the airport, I'm on the next
flight.
>> Why did you decide to go?
>> Because I was sending a team uh to Japan
at a time when no foreign dignitary
would go and I felt that sending the
team was good but not good enough. I
should be uh also able to do that. And
this is how that sense of we are going
to do what is right is reinforced when
when those responsible stand by uh their
decisions.
>> Are you worried that there's just one
crisis too many? In the last six years
we had COVID that was 2020. Then you
have the war in Ukraine. Then you have
the tariffs and this year you have the
Middle East war.
>> Yes. I am concerned that we are not
completely internalizing yet that this
is how the world is going to be. We are
not going to get to a place where shocks
are gone and uh what should we do? I
have been telling our members time and
again look there are things you cannot
influence but how you take care of your
own country how you built the foundation
to withstand these shocks it is in your
hands I always find it interesting to
ask leaders about times when they've had
to pivot from initial call or backtrack
on a decision and in September 2024
Gurga had to do just that the IMF
announced they would conduct their
annual review of Russia's economy for
the first time since the full-scale
invasion of [music] Ukraine in 2022.
Now, that decision was really met with
backlash. Reporting by the Financial
Times revealed that several European
countries, including Sweden, Denmark,
and Norway criticized Gurga and the IMF,
saying the visit would be taking a step
towards normalizing relations with the
aggressor. Now ultimately the IMF
decided not to go to Russia but I wanted
to know what the thinking was behind the
trip. I want to talk to you about Russia
because in 2024 there was a decision to
to go to Russia. Russia is one of the
members and then there was a backlash.
What was that moment like for you
>> when we u brought a program for Ukraine
for support of Ukraine?
What impressed me was that
uh we got full support of course with
the exception of uh one country
and what it demonstrated was that there
is a recognition
that the fund bears a responsibility to
support
countries in difficult position
especially when they are not necessarily
the source of this difficulty. there was
a discussion whether we can do an
assessment of the Russian economy, the
regular assessment and at that point um
it was um a very uh tricky moment
because bombing was going in both
directions uh we decided to uh to delay
uh I think that at some point
we will have the regular assessment uh
restarted um uh let's see when this
point would be.
>> So was your decision not to go to
basically look at the economy because of
the bombs or because of the backlash
amongst
>> when when we had to make this decision
at that time there was a bombing in
Russia. Um I can say that um I would
have not responsibly sent a mission at
that time. There was also a very uh
important consideration.
Can we objectively get all the
information we need to complete this
assessment? And the honest answer was
no. We need to collect data on u uh
trade import export. Russia was very
reluctant to provide this uh data and
that makes an assessment handicapped.
But do do you feel sometimes like you're
politicized more than you want to be?
>> I in that particular case,
no. Majority of our members, majority
uh feel that
the invasion of Ukraine
was a watershed moment for the whole
world. Never in our wildest nightmares
we would think that the military power
in Europe would attack another country.
Never. But that happened. And that
watershed moment brought the membership
at the front together to recognize that
we have a duty of care for Ukraine. Is
there something in the psychology of
people that's changed for, you know,
multilateralism, for the elite, for
institutions like the IMF?
>> What I can tell you is that um
we collectively did not appreciate
the backlash against globalization.
That came from the fact that yes, the
world economy is doing better as a
whole, but many communities
were hauled out because their jobs
disappeared and there was not enough
attention to them. Uh I'll tell you what
I am very keen not to see repeated is
the same with artificial intelligence. I
hope we will have learned this lesson
and uh as we move very rapidly into this
world of artificial intelligence, we
will pay attention of who benefits and
who doesn't. Uh so
>> whose job is that? Because it's very
difficult. It's going so fast.
>> I can tell you how we define our job.
Number one, impact of AI on
productivity. Number two, impact on
labor markets. Number three, impact on
financial stability. And in these three
areas, we offer uh very uh sound
analysis and we offer uh signals of what
may be coming uh for everybody to to
use.
>> So if you just focus on leadership and
AI, this is a very tricky situation
because you're either an optimist and
you think that politicians are here for
the good of the people or trying to make
a difference. you're either a pessimist
on politicians and you see, okay, they
just want to be popular and be
reelected,
>> but now you've given the power of AI to
companies that are here to make money.
>> So the it's hard to say we have given
them the power. The honest assessment is
that they have moved very rapidly. We
need to have um more attention to the
fact that three different regulatory
models are emerging with regard to
artificial intelligence. The European,
the American, the Chinese.
uh it has to be the responsibility
uh of the United Nations system to bring
these three models um uh so they can
coexist and they they can they actually
we can run uh the the um developments in
artificial intelligence more
responsibly. But does it change you
think the leadership of countries or the
leadership of prime ministers and
presidents because they they don't have
any control over they don't have the
levers even to do anything about this.
>> They actually do have levers. We should
not give them a pass. They have uh
regulatory authority over data.
>> Uh they have uh regulatory authority
over how the profits from AI can be
distributed in society. So exercise it.
One thing that excites them and gets
them to move is risks to financial
stability. Something that we have
responsibility
to identify and then offer solutions.
What can we do? The IMF isn't your
typical organization. It's a global
institution serving nearly 200
countries, balancing politics,
economics, and competing interests. So,
how does such a broad and diverse group
of stakeholders shape the way you lead?
you have many employees at the IMF.
>> It's not really like a you know a
business sense like we're in the city of
London
>> because it's more bureaucratic just by
the nature of it.
>> Is have you changed it? Does it you
change the way you work in terms of
flows?
>> Well, there are two things I I hope when
I'm
out of the fund they would still stay.
The first one is that very simple
message that policies are for people. I
grew up in uh Bulgaria on the other side
of the iron curtain. My mother lost all
her savings because of hyperinflation. I
remember queuing 4:00 in the morning to
buy milk for my daughter. I saw
firsthand how devastating
bad policies are for people. And the
second thing I hope would stay is um a
team culture. Of all the places I
worked, this has the highest degree of
discipline. It's like a small army. Once
a decision is taken,
we move.
There was when I came I had that sense
that there are uh structures within the
army that act on their own but there
isn't enough collective engagement and
we are not making best use of the
totality of our skills. So we have built
that sense of of of a team uh that
especially in these difficult times
comes together we make decisions uh
together. How did you change that?
Because it's something very difficult,
right? It's almost in the DNA of any
organization that it's collaboration,
but that people feel they want to be
part of it.
>> You have to invest in bringing the team
together. We have regular meetings of
the senior management team. We have
leadership training something that was
seen when I came was see like you know
we wasting our time. No, bring people
together. You're leaders. You have to
solve problems together. Put your minds
on that. uh by making sure that we
respect every opinion. Um when I came
that's very interesting. So I'm sitting
in my conference room, people come in,
some sit at the table, some sit behind.
I'm saying what why is that? Why isn't
it first come first serve? Well, this
level of seniority at the table, this
level of seniority in the seat behind
making the younger generation feeling
that their voice is heard. Uh that
really uh matters and then bringing a
degree of informality when you're in a
crisis, you have to feel comfortable to
reach out to everybody, including to the
managing director. I'll tell you, I do
things that are non-conventional. We
would go out and we would dance. It is
everything that makes break the barriers
uh helps when you do this and you as a
leader people can see you you're there.
Everybody shows up and that creates a
very different dynamic. Doesn't happen
overnight.
>> Looking back at your career so far, is
there anything that you that you would
do differently? Is there a a problem
that you wish you could have solved? Is
there a country that you could have
helped sooner?
>> The most impactful of my jobs was being
commissioner for crisis response and
humanitarian aid. The one thing I regret
is that some of the lessons I learned on
the way I didn't learn earlier. Uh the
most beautiful lesson I learned from a u
13 year old girl, Syrian girl in
Lebanon. I was talking to her and I was
asking her
what does she want? And she said, "I
dream to go back to Syria and go back to
school." And at that time my answer was,
"I really hope you can do it." And then
I walked out and I said, "Wait a minute.
My hoping does nothing for her." So I
put all my energy to create a program
for Syrian children. Look, Francine, I
spent too many years sitting in rooms of
very important people,
listening to what they say, and
thinking, "Well, you know, they're so
important. They must know better." And
sometimes being shy to speak up. What is
the moral of this lesson?
When there is a problem,
own it. Embrace it.
If you can work for a solution,
do it. Do not hesitate.
>> In a profile written back in 2022, you
described being late to recognize the
importance of gender equality as one of
your, I guess, regrets. I What shifted
your perspective? Yes. Well, what
shifted my perspective was uh being time
and again the only woman in the room and
looking around and saying this is not
going to change by us just waiting for
change to happen. Actually since I came
to the fund uh guess what we are now
just about 40% uh women in Syrian senior
positions. We were at 25 when I started.
I came to this recognition also as a
good economist because when we don't
have women in the labor force when they
don't add their smarts uh to decision
making u uh we all lose.
>> I mean at last year's fortune most
powerful women summit you also said that
Christine Lagard broke the glass ceiling
and and that when you stepped in there
there were no scratches left. So what
did you mean by that? When I came as the
second woman to lead the IMF,
uh half jockingly,
one of the men said, "Are we going to
ever have a man managing director?" Uh
to which my answer was, "Well, if you
want to average it, uh you will have to
wait some 60 years and then it is again
your your turn."
>> MD, thank you so much. I have some rapid
fire questions. Are you ready?
>> Of course. What's the most important
question you ask or tactic you have in
an interview to figure out if they're
the right person for the job?
>> I ask, what would the person that
doesn't like you say about you?
>> And what would the person that likes you
say about you?
>> If I asked you that question, what would
you say? the the persons uh don't that
don't like me are likely uh to say uh
she is uh uh too pushy, she interrupts
people when they speak, she's too
impatient. [clears throat]
So yeah, that's what I think.
>> Are the people that like you?
>> They would say that [laughter]
uh I'm fun to work with.
>> Uh what's a job you did not get that you
would have loved to have done?
>> I can tell you a job that that I run
for. I didn't get it and later on I was
delighted I didn't I went to Australia
to apply for a position as a professor
in a Australian university. I didn't get
it and [music]
just a month later I went to the United
States to MIT and the rest is history.
>> What keeps you up at night right now? I
wake up
worried that not yet people understand
that we have to think of the unthinkable
because the unthinkable has happened and
it will happen again. I worry what is
the next shock to hit. I don't know what
it would be. I just know there would be
one. And I worry that I'm not doing
enough to get people to say wake up.
>> Cretellia Gorgva, thank you so much for
joining us.
>> Thank you.